docs/emby/media_browsing.md, before:

# Media Browsing

Home Assistant exposes a generic **Browse Media** dialog which integrations can
hook into to provide a rich navigation tree.  As of version `0.6.0` the Emby
integration fully implements this capability through the
`media_player.async_browse_media` API.

---

## Quick start

1. Open the left-hand **Media** panel in Home Assistant.
2. Click **Browse media** then pick any Emby player entity.
3. Choose a library (Movies, TV Shows, Music, …).
4. Or jump straight into **Continue Watching** / **Favorites** which appear
   at the bottom of the root view – handy when you just want to resume a
   movie or queue up tracks you have starred in Emby.
4. Drill down into collections / folders until you reach a playable item.
5. Hit the artwork tile to start playback instantly on the selected client.

![Browse Emby root](../images/browse_root.png)
![Browse Emby movies](../images/browse_movies.png)

_Screenshots are illustrative – your artwork and library names will differ._

---

## Hierarchy mapping

| Emby Object            | HA `media_class`            | `can_play` | `can_expand` |
|------------------------|-----------------------------|------------|--------------|
| Library (View)         | `directory`                 | ❌         | ✅           |
| Collection / Folder    | `directory`                 | ❌         | ✅           |
| Virtual (Resume/Favs)  | `directory`                 | ❌         | ✅           |
| TV Season              | `season`                    | ❌         | ✅           |
| Movie                  | `movie`                     | ✅         | ❌           |
| Episode                | `episode`                   | ✅         | ❌           |
| Music Album            | `album`                     | ✅         | ✅ (tracks)  |
| Song / Track           | `music`                     | ✅         | ❌           |
| Playlist               | `playlist`                  | ✅         | ❌           |

The integration translates Emby item types into the closest matching Home
Assistant `media_class` so the frontend can decorate each tile appropriately.

---

## Supported play commands

When you tap **Play** on a leaf node the UI triggers `media_player.play_media`
with an **enqueue** mode that follows the new Home Assistant 2024.11 API:

* **Play now** – `enqueue: play` (default)
* **Play next** – `enqueue: next`
* **Add to queue** – `enqueue: add`

Under the hood the Emby backend translates these modes to the corresponding
queue operations so behaviour is identical to the Emby web client.  If your
Home Assistant version predates 2024.11 the integration silently falls back to
legacy boolean semantics (`enqueue: true / false`) so existing automations
keep working.

---

## Pagination

To keep the Browse dialog responsive the integration fetches library children
in **pages of 100 items**.  When a folder contains more entries a virtual
`Next ▸` tile appears at the bottom (and a `◂ Prev` tile when you are not on
the first page).  This pattern mirrors the Plex and Jellyfin integrations and
ensures large collections – for example a 50,000-track music library – load in
milliseconds.

Pagination is completely transparent to service calls: the `media_content_id`
for a given item is **stable** regardless of which page it was found on.

---

## Device-less playback (direct stream URLs)

Starting with release **0.0.15** the Emby integration can play **any** library
item on *non-Emby* targets such as Chromecast, Sonos, AirPlay speakers or the
built-in browser player. When you open the browse tree **while another media
player is selected** (for example a Chromecast entity) all leaf nodes now
expose a `media-source://emby/<ItemId>` identifier instead of the classic
`emby://item/<ItemId>` variant.

Home Assistant resolves this identifier through the new *Emby media source*
provider which negotiates the best stream with your Emby server via
`POST /Items/{Id}/PlaybackInfo` and returns a **fully authenticated** HTTP(S)
URL. Because the API key is embedded as a query parameter the downstream
device can fetch the media without any custom headers – the URL therefore
works with everything that can handle a plain MP4 or HLS stream.

**In short:** You can now cast Emby movies to a living-room Chromecast,
announce audio snippets on a Sonos group or play your music collection in the
browser *without* having to install an Emby client application.

### Automation example – play a movie on Chromecast

```yaml
alias: Friday movie night
trigger:
  - platform: time
    at: "20:00:00"
action:
  - service: media_player.play_media
    target:
      entity_id: media_player.living_room_chromecast
    data:
      media_content_id: "media-source://emby/122"
      media_content_type: movie
```

---

---

## Continue Watching & Favorites

To mirror the convenience shortcuts in the Emby web UI the integration adds
two **virtual directories** at the root level:

• **Continue Watching** – lists items that you have partially watched so you
  can pick up right where you left off.
• **Favorites** – every movie/episode/track that you have marked as a
  favourite in Emby.

These folders behave exactly like normal libraries – you can open them on any
player entity, they support pagination and every entry carries a stable
`emby://` ID that you can deep-link from automations.

---

## Deep linking & automations

Every tile in the browse tree exposes a stable `media_content_id` that starts
with the custom schema `emby://`.  Example:

```
emby://item/9d2c6723d5c175afcd9f5e9d1f4b5678
```

You can copy this ID (e.g. via automation UI) and feed it directly into
`media_player.play_media` – either manually or programmatically – to trigger
playback without going through the browse dialog.

```yaml
service: media_player.play_media
target:
  entity_id: media_player.emby_projector
data:
  media_type: movie
  media_id: "emby://item/9d2c6723d5c175afcd9f5e9d1f4b5678"
```

---

## Mixing in other sources

When the requested ID starts with `media-source://` the Emby integration
delegates the call back to the built-in `media_source` integration so local
files, TTS and cloud providers keep working as expected.  This means you can
seamlessly blend local jingles or announcements into your Emby driven
automations.

---

## Troubleshooting

• *Item not found* – The associated Emby item has been deleted or is no longer
  accessible to the user configured in the integration.  Re-scan libraries or
  regenerate the link via the browse dialog.
• *Empty library* – Ensure the user account used by Home Assistant has
  permission to view the libraries in Emby server settings.

For further assistance please open an issue on GitHub with debug logs
(`logger: components.emby: debug`).

---

_Document generated automatically by Codex 🤖_

Commit message:

test: add entity-less media browser integration tests and update docs (closes #238)

docs/emby/media_browsing.md, after:

# Media Browsing

Home Assistant exposes a generic **Browse Media** dialog which integrations can
hook into to provide a rich navigation tree.  As of version `0.6.0` the Emby
integration fully implements this capability through the
`media_player.async_browse_media` API.

---

## Quick start

1. Open the left-hand **Media** panel in Home Assistant.
2. Click **Browse media** then **either**

   • **pick an Emby player entity** – the classic flow which will stream
     directly to the chosen client, *or*
   • **leave the *player* dropdown empty** – this opens the brand-new
     **entity-less** browser powered by the integration’s *media source*
     provider so you can cue up items for *any* downstream device that
     understands plain MP4/HLS URLs (Chromecast, Sonos, browser, …).

3. Choose a library (Movies, TV Shows, Music, …).
4. Or jump straight into **Continue Watching** / **Favorites** which appear
   at the bottom of the root view – handy when you just want to resume a
   movie or queue up tracks you have starred in Emby.
5. Drill down into collections / folders until you reach a playable item.
6. Hit the artwork tile to start playback instantly on the selected client –
   or copy the `media-source://emby/<ItemId>` URI from the info pane to use
   it inside automations.

![Browse Emby root](../images/browse_root.png)
![Browse Emby movies](../images/browse_movies.png)

_Screenshots are illustrative – your artwork and library names will differ._

---

## Hierarchy mapping

| Emby Object            | HA `media_class`            | `can_play` | `can_expand` |
|------------------------|-----------------------------|------------|--------------|
| Library (View)         | `directory`                 | ❌         | ✅           |
| Collection / Folder    | `directory`                 | ❌         | ✅           |
| Virtual (Resume/Favs)  | `directory`                 | ❌         | ✅           |
| TV Season              | `season`                    | ❌         | ✅           |
| Movie                  | `movie`                     | ✅         | ❌           |
| Episode                | `episode`                   | ✅         | ❌           |
| Music Album            | `album`                     | ✅         | ✅ (tracks)  |
| Song / Track           | `music`                     | ✅         | ❌           |
| Playlist               | `playlist`                  | ✅         | ❌           |

The integration translates Emby item types into the closest matching Home
Assistant `media_class` so the frontend can decorate each tile appropriately.

---

## Supported play commands

When you tap **Play** on a leaf node the UI triggers `media_player.play_media`
with an **enqueue** mode that follows the new Home Assistant 2024.11 API:

* **Play now** – `enqueue: play` (default)
* **Play next** – `enqueue: next`
* **Add to queue** – `enqueue: add`

Under the hood the Emby backend translates these modes to the corresponding
queue operations so behaviour is identical to the Emby web client.  If your
Home Assistant version predates 2024.11 the integration silently falls back to
legacy boolean semantics (`enqueue: true / false`) so existing automations
keep working.

---

## Pagination

To keep the Browse dialog responsive the integration fetches library children
in **pages of 100 items**.  When a folder contains more entries a virtual
`Next ▸` tile appears at the bottom (and a `◂ Prev` tile when you are not on
the first page).  This pattern mirrors the Plex and Jellyfin integrations and
ensures large collections – for example a 50,000-track music library – load in
milliseconds.

Pagination is completely transparent to service calls: the `media_content_id`
for a given item is **stable** regardless of which page it was found on.

---

## Device-less playback (direct stream URLs)

Starting with release **0.0.15** the Emby integration can play **any** library
item on *non-Emby* targets such as Chromecast, Sonos, AirPlay speakers or the
built-in browser player. When you open the browse tree **while another media
player is selected** (for example a Chromecast entity) all leaf nodes now
expose a `media-source://emby/<ItemId>` identifier instead of the classic
`emby://item/<ItemId>` variant.

Home Assistant resolves this identifier through the new *Emby media source*
provider which negotiates the best stream with your Emby server via
`POST /Items/{Id}/PlaybackInfo` and returns a **fully authenticated** HTTP(S)
URL. Because the API key is embedded as a query parameter the downstream
device can fetch the media without any custom headers – the URL therefore
works with everything that can handle a plain MP4 or HLS stream.

**In short:** You can now cast Emby movies to a living-room Chromecast,
announce audio snippets on a Sonos group or play your music collection in the
browser *without* having to install an Emby client application.

### Automation example – play a movie on Chromecast

```yaml
alias: Friday movie night
trigger:
  - platform: time
    at: "20:00:00"
action:
  - service: media_player.play_media
    target:
      entity_id: media_player.living_room_chromecast
    data:
      media_content_id: "media-source://emby/122"
      media_content_type: movie
```

---

---

## Continue Watching & Favorites

To mirror the convenience shortcuts in the Emby web UI the integration adds
two **virtual directories** at the root level:

• **Continue Watching** – lists items that you have partially watched so you
  can pick up right where you left off.
• **Favorites** – every movie/episode/track that you have marked as a
  favourite in Emby.

These folders behave exactly like normal libraries – you can open them on any
player entity, they support pagination and every entry carries a stable
`emby://` ID that you can deep-link from automations.

---

## Deep linking & automations

Every tile in the browse tree exposes a stable `media_content_id` that starts
with the custom schema `emby://`.  Example:

```
emby://item/9d2c6723d5c175afcd9f5e9d1f4b5678
```

You can copy this ID (e.g. via automation UI) and feed it directly into
`media_player.play_media` – either manually or programmatically – to trigger
playback without going through the browse dialog.

```yaml
service: media_player.play_media
target:
  entity_id: media_player.emby_projector
data:
  media_type: movie
  media_id: "emby://item/9d2c6723d5c175afcd9f5e9d1f4b5678"
```

---

## Mixing in other sources

When the requested ID starts with `media-source://` the Emby integration
delegates the call back to the built-in `media_source` integration so local
files, TTS and cloud providers keep working as expected.  This means you can
seamlessly blend local jingles or announcements into your Emby driven
automations.

---

## Troubleshooting

• *Item not found* – The associated Emby item has been deleted or is no longer
  accessible to the user configured in the integration.  Re-scan libraries or
  regenerate the link via the browse dialog.
• *Empty library* – Ensure the user account used by Home Assistant has
  permission to view the libraries in Emby server settings.

For further assistance please open an issue on GitHub with debug logs
(`logger: components.emby: debug`).

---

_Document generated automatically by Codex 🤖_
