docs/SERVICES.md, before:

# Services Reference

This document describes all services provided by the Emby Media integration.

## Table of Contents

- [Standard Media Player Services](#standard-media-player-services)
- [Remote Entity Services](#remote-entity-services)
- [Notify Entity Services](#notify-entity-services)
- [Button Entity Services](#button-entity-services)
- [Custom Emby Services](#custom-emby-services)
- [Service Targeting](#service-targeting)

---

## Standard Media Player Services

These are Home Assistant standard services that work with Emby media player entities.

### media_player.media_play

Resume playback on a paused player.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_play
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.media_pause

Pause current playback.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_pause
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.media_stop

Stop playback completely.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_stop
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.media_play_pause

Toggle between play and pause.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_play_pause
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.media_next_track

Skip to the next item in queue.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_next_track
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.media_previous_track

Go back to the previous item.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_previous_track
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.media_seek

Seek to a specific position.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_seek
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  seek_position: 300  # Seconds from start
```

### media_player.volume_set

Set volume level (0.0 to 1.0).

```yaml
service: media_player.volume_set
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  volume_level: 0.5  # 50%
```

### media_player.volume_up / volume_down

Adjust volume incrementally.

```yaml
service: media_player.volume_up
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.volume_mute

Mute or unmute audio.

```yaml
service: media_player.volume_mute
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  is_volume_muted: true
```

### media_player.play_media

Play specific media content.

```yaml
service: media_player.play_media
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  media_content_type: movie
  media_content_id: "item_id_from_emby"
```

**Content Types:**
- `movie` - Play a movie
- `tvshow` - Play a TV episode
- `music` - Play a music track
- `video` - Generic video
- `audio` - Generic audio
- `playlist` - Play a playlist
- `channel` - Play a Live TV channel

### media_player.clear_playlist

Clear the current playback queue and stop playback.

```yaml
service: media_player.clear_playlist
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

> **Note**: This service is only available when the player has an active queue (queue_size > 0).

---

## Remote Entity Services

Each Emby client creates a remote entity for navigation commands.

### remote.send_command

Send navigation commands to Emby clients.

```yaml
service: remote.send_command
target:
  entity_id: remote.living_room_tv_remote
data:
  command: Select
```

**Available Commands:**

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `MoveUp` | Navigate up |
| `MoveDown` | Navigate down |
| `MoveLeft` | Navigate left |
| `MoveRight` | Navigate right |
| `PageUp` | Page up in lists |
| `PageDown` | Page down in lists |
| `Select` | Select/confirm current item |
| `Back` | Go back |
| `GoHome` | Go to home screen |
| `GoToSettings` | Open settings |
| `ToggleContextMenu` | Open context menu |
| `ToggleOsdMenu` | Toggle on-screen display |
| `VolumeUp` | Increase volume |
| `VolumeDown` | Decrease volume |
| `Mute` | Mute audio |
| `Unmute` | Unmute audio |
| `ToggleMute` | Toggle mute state |

**Send Multiple Commands:**

```yaml
service: remote.send_command
target:
  entity_id: remote.living_room_tv_remote
data:
  command:
    - MoveDown
    - MoveDown
    - Select
```

### remote.turn_on / turn_off

These are not supported - Emby remotes are virtual entities.

---

## Notify Entity Services

Each Emby client creates a notify entity for on-screen messages.

### notify.send_message

Display a message on the Emby client screen.

```yaml
service: notify.send_message
target:
  entity_id: notify.living_room_tv_notification
data:
  message: "Dinner is ready!"
  title: "Kitchen"  # Optional
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `message` | Yes | Message text to display |
| `title` | No | Message header/title |

The message will display for approximately 5 seconds on the Emby client.

---

## Button Entity Services

### button.press

Press a button entity to trigger server actions.

```yaml
service: button.press
target:
  entity_id: button.emby_server_refresh_library
```

**Available Buttons:**

| Button | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `button.emby_server_refresh_library` | Trigger a full library scan |

---

## Custom Emby Services

These are custom services specific to the Emby integration.

### embymedia.send_message

Send a message to one or more Emby clients with more options than the notify entity.

```yaml
service: embymedia.send_message
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  message: "Important notification!"
  header: "Alert"        # Optional, message header
  timeout_ms: 10000      # Optional, display time in milliseconds (default: 5000)
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `message` | Yes | — | Message text |
| `header` | No | "" | Message header |
| `timeout_ms` | No | 5000 | Display duration (1000-60000 ms) |

### embymedia.send_command

Send a general command to Emby clients.

```yaml
service: embymedia.send_command
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  command: GoHome
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `command` | Yes | Command name (see remote commands above) |

### embymedia.mark_played

Mark an item as played/watched.

```yaml
service: embymedia.mark_played
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  item_id: "abc123"      # Emby item ID
  user_id: "xyz789"      # Optional, uses session user if not specified
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `item_id` | Yes | Emby item ID to mark as played |
| `user_id` | No | User ID (defaults to session user) |

### embymedia.mark_unplayed

Mark an item as unplayed/unwatched.

```yaml
service: embymedia.mark_unplayed
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  item_id: "abc123"
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `item_id` | Yes | Emby item ID to mark as unplayed |
| `user_id` | No | User ID (defaults to session user) |

### embymedia.add_favorite

Add an item to user's favorites.

```yaml
service: embymedia.add_favorite
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  item_id: "abc123"
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `item_id` | Yes | Emby item ID to add to favorites |
| `user_id` | No | User ID (defaults to session user) |

### embymedia.remove_favorite

Remove an item from user's favorites.

```yaml
service: embymedia.remove_favorite
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  item_id: "abc123"
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `item_id` | Yes | Emby item ID to remove from favorites |
| `user_id` | No | User ID (defaults to session user) |

### embymedia.refresh_library

Trigger a library scan on the Emby server.

```yaml
service: embymedia.refresh_library
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  library_id: "abc123"   # Optional, refreshes all if not specified
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `library_id` | No | Specific library to refresh (all if omitted) |

### embymedia.play_instant_mix

Play an instant mix (similar music) based on a song, album, or artist.

```yaml
service: embymedia.play_instant_mix
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  item_id: "abc123"      # Emby item ID (song, album, or artist)
  user_id: "xyz789"      # Optional, uses session user if not specified
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `item_id` | Yes | Emby item ID to use as seed for instant mix |
| `user_id` | No | User ID (defaults to session user) |

**Example - Play music similar to current song:**

```yaml
automation:
  - alias: "Instant Mix from Now Playing"
    trigger:
      - platform: event
        event_type: mobile_app_notification_action
        event_data:
          action: instant_mix
    action:
      - service: embymedia.play_instant_mix
        target:
          entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
        data:
          item_id: "{{ state_attr('media_player.living_room_tv', 'media_content_id') }}"
```

### embymedia.play_similar

Play similar items based on a media item (works for movies, TV shows, or music).

```yaml
service: embymedia.play_similar
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  item_id: "abc123"      # Emby item ID
  user_id: "xyz789"      # Optional, uses session user if not specified
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `item_id` | Yes | Emby item ID to find similar items for |
| `user_id` | No | User ID (defaults to session user) |

**Example - Play movies similar to last watched:**

```yaml
script:
  play_similar_movies:
    alias: "Play Similar Movies"
    sequence:
      - service: embymedia.play_similar
        target:
          entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
        data:
          item_id: "{{ movie_id }}"
```

---

## Service Targeting

### By Entity ID

Target one or more entities directly:

```yaml
service: embymedia.send_message
target:
  entity_id:
    - media_player.living_room_tv
    - media_player.bedroom_tv
data:
  message: "Hello!"
```

### By Device ID

Target by device ID (from Developer Tools):

```yaml
service: embymedia.send_message
target:
  device_id: "abc123def456"
data:
  message: "Hello!"
```

### By Area

Target all Emby entities in an area:

```yaml
service: media_player.media_pause
target:
  area_id: living_room
```

### Multiple Targets

Combine multiple targeting methods:

```yaml
service: embymedia.send_message
target:
  entity_id: media_player.kitchen_tv
  area_id: bedroom
  device_id: "abc123"
data:
  message: "Movie night!"
```

---

## Finding Item IDs

To use services like `mark_played` or `add_favorite`, you need the Emby item ID.

### From Entity Attributes

When something is playing, check the entity attributes:

1. Go to **Developer Tools** → **States**
2. Find your media player entity
3. Look for `media_content_id` attribute

### From Emby URL

When viewing an item in Emby's web interface:
- URL format: `http://emby:8096/web/index.html#!/item?id=abc123`
- The item ID is the `id` parameter: `abc123`

### From Media Browser

The media browser content IDs are in the format required by services.

---

## Examples

### Complete Movie Night Automation

```yaml
automation:
  - alias: "Movie Night Setup"
    trigger:
      - platform: state
        entity_id: input_boolean.movie_night
        to: "on"
    action:
      # Dim the lights
      - service: light.turn_on
        target:
          entity_id: light.living_room
        data:
          brightness_pct: 5
      # Send notification to all TVs
      - service: embymedia.send_message
        target:
          entity_id:
            - media_player.living_room_tv
            - media_player.bedroom_tv
        data:
          message: "Movie night is starting!"
          header: "🎬 Movie Night"
          timeout_ms: 8000
      # Start playing from queue
      - service: media_player.media_play
        target:
          entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### Mark Series as Watched

```yaml
script:
  mark_series_watched:
    alias: "Mark Series as Watched"
    sequence:
      - service: embymedia.mark_played
        target:
          entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
        data:
          item_id: "{{ series_id }}"
```

---

## Next Steps

- **[Automations](AUTOMATIONS.md)** - Ready-to-use automation examples
- **[Configuration](CONFIGURATION.md)** - Integration settings
- **[Troubleshooting](TROUBLESHOOTING.md)** - Fix common issues

Commit message:

docs: document MEDIA_ANNOUNCE limitation due to Emby API
The Emby API does not support playing external URLs on clients.
The Play command only accepts ItemIds from the library, making it
impossible to implement TTS announcement support.

Research findings:
- No PlayUrl command exists in Emby API
- /Sessions/{Id}/Playing only accepts ItemIds parameter
- TTS requires URL playback which Emby cannot do

References:
- https://dev.emby.media/doc/restapi/Remote-Control.html
- https://emby.media/community/index.php?/topic/52423-url-playable-in-emby-player/

docs/SERVICES.md, after:

# Services Reference

This document describes all services provided by the Emby Media integration.

## Table of Contents

- [Standard Media Player Services](#standard-media-player-services)
- [Remote Entity Services](#remote-entity-services)
- [Notify Entity Services](#notify-entity-services)
- [Button Entity Services](#button-entity-services)
- [Custom Emby Services](#custom-emby-services)
- [Service Targeting](#service-targeting)

---

## Standard Media Player Services

These are Home Assistant standard services that work with Emby media player entities.

### media_player.media_play

Resume playback on a paused player.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_play
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.media_pause

Pause current playback.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_pause
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.media_stop

Stop playback completely.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_stop
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.media_play_pause

Toggle between play and pause.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_play_pause
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.media_next_track

Skip to the next item in queue.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_next_track
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.media_previous_track

Go back to the previous item.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_previous_track
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.media_seek

Seek to a specific position.

```yaml
service: media_player.media_seek
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  seek_position: 300  # Seconds from start
```

### media_player.volume_set

Set volume level (0.0 to 1.0).

```yaml
service: media_player.volume_set
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  volume_level: 0.5  # 50%
```

### media_player.volume_up / volume_down

Adjust volume incrementally.

```yaml
service: media_player.volume_up
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### media_player.volume_mute

Mute or unmute audio.

```yaml
service: media_player.volume_mute
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  is_volume_muted: true
```

### media_player.play_media

Play specific media content.

```yaml
service: media_player.play_media
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  media_content_type: movie
  media_content_id: "item_id_from_emby"
```

**Content Types:**
- `movie` - Play a movie
- `tvshow` - Play a TV episode
- `music` - Play a music track
- `video` - Generic video
- `audio` - Generic audio
- `playlist` - Play a playlist
- `channel` - Play a Live TV channel

### media_player.clear_playlist

Clear the current playback queue and stop playback.

```yaml
service: media_player.clear_playlist
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

> **Note**: This service is only available when the player has an active queue (queue_size > 0).

---

## Remote Entity Services

Each Emby client creates a remote entity for navigation commands.

### remote.send_command

Send navigation commands to Emby clients.

```yaml
service: remote.send_command
target:
  entity_id: remote.living_room_tv_remote
data:
  command: Select
```

**Available Commands:**

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `MoveUp` | Navigate up |
| `MoveDown` | Navigate down |
| `MoveLeft` | Navigate left |
| `MoveRight` | Navigate right |
| `PageUp` | Page up in lists |
| `PageDown` | Page down in lists |
| `Select` | Select/confirm current item |
| `Back` | Go back |
| `GoHome` | Go to home screen |
| `GoToSettings` | Open settings |
| `ToggleContextMenu` | Open context menu |
| `ToggleOsdMenu` | Toggle on-screen display |
| `VolumeUp` | Increase volume |
| `VolumeDown` | Decrease volume |
| `Mute` | Mute audio |
| `Unmute` | Unmute audio |
| `ToggleMute` | Toggle mute state |

**Send Multiple Commands:**

```yaml
service: remote.send_command
target:
  entity_id: remote.living_room_tv_remote
data:
  command:
    - MoveDown
    - MoveDown
    - Select
```

### remote.turn_on / turn_off

These are not supported - Emby remotes are virtual entities.

---

## Notify Entity Services

Each Emby client creates a notify entity for on-screen messages.

### notify.send_message

Display a message on the Emby client screen.

```yaml
service: notify.send_message
target:
  entity_id: notify.living_room_tv_notification
data:
  message: "Dinner is ready!"
  title: "Kitchen"  # Optional
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `message` | Yes | Message text to display |
| `title` | No | Message header/title |

The message will display for approximately 5 seconds on the Emby client.

---

## Button Entity Services

### button.press

Press a button entity to trigger server actions.

```yaml
service: button.press
target:
  entity_id: button.emby_server_refresh_library
```

**Available Buttons:**

| Button | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `button.emby_server_refresh_library` | Trigger a full library scan |

---

## Custom Emby Services

These are custom services specific to the Emby integration.

### embymedia.send_message

Send a message to one or more Emby clients with more options than the notify entity.

```yaml
service: embymedia.send_message
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  message: "Important notification!"
  header: "Alert"        # Optional, message header
  timeout_ms: 10000      # Optional, display time in milliseconds (default: 5000)
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `message` | Yes | — | Message text |
| `header` | No | "" | Message header |
| `timeout_ms` | No | 5000 | Display duration (1000-60000 ms) |

### embymedia.send_command

Send a general command to Emby clients.

```yaml
service: embymedia.send_command
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  command: GoHome
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `command` | Yes | Command name (see remote commands above) |

### embymedia.mark_played

Mark an item as played/watched.

```yaml
service: embymedia.mark_played
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  item_id: "abc123"      # Emby item ID
  user_id: "xyz789"      # Optional, uses session user if not specified
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `item_id` | Yes | Emby item ID to mark as played |
| `user_id` | No | User ID (defaults to session user) |

### embymedia.mark_unplayed

Mark an item as unplayed/unwatched.

```yaml
service: embymedia.mark_unplayed
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  item_id: "abc123"
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `item_id` | Yes | Emby item ID to mark as unplayed |
| `user_id` | No | User ID (defaults to session user) |

### embymedia.add_favorite

Add an item to user's favorites.

```yaml
service: embymedia.add_favorite
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  item_id: "abc123"
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `item_id` | Yes | Emby item ID to add to favorites |
| `user_id` | No | User ID (defaults to session user) |

### embymedia.remove_favorite

Remove an item from user's favorites.

```yaml
service: embymedia.remove_favorite
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  item_id: "abc123"
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `item_id` | Yes | Emby item ID to remove from favorites |
| `user_id` | No | User ID (defaults to session user) |

### embymedia.refresh_library

Trigger a library scan on the Emby server.

```yaml
service: embymedia.refresh_library
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  library_id: "abc123"   # Optional, refreshes all if not specified
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `library_id` | No | Specific library to refresh (all if omitted) |

### embymedia.play_instant_mix

Play an instant mix (similar music) based on a song, album, or artist.

```yaml
service: embymedia.play_instant_mix
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  item_id: "abc123"      # Emby item ID (song, album, or artist)
  user_id: "xyz789"      # Optional, uses session user if not specified
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `item_id` | Yes | Emby item ID to use as seed for instant mix |
| `user_id` | No | User ID (defaults to session user) |

**Example - Play music similar to current song:**

```yaml
automation:
  - alias: "Instant Mix from Now Playing"
    trigger:
      - platform: event
        event_type: mobile_app_notification_action
        event_data:
          action: instant_mix
    action:
      - service: embymedia.play_instant_mix
        target:
          entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
        data:
          item_id: "{{ state_attr('media_player.living_room_tv', 'media_content_id') }}"
```

### embymedia.play_similar

Play similar items based on a media item (works for movies, TV shows, or music).

```yaml
service: embymedia.play_similar
target:
  entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
data:
  item_id: "abc123"      # Emby item ID
  user_id: "xyz789"      # Optional, uses session user if not specified
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| `item_id` | Yes | Emby item ID to find similar items for |
| `user_id` | No | User ID (defaults to session user) |

**Example - Play movies similar to last watched:**

```yaml
script:
  play_similar_movies:
    alias: "Play Similar Movies"
    sequence:
      - service: embymedia.play_similar
        target:
          entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
        data:
          item_id: "{{ movie_id }}"
```

---

## Service Targeting

### By Entity ID

Target one or more entities directly:

```yaml
service: embymedia.send_message
target:
  entity_id:
    - media_player.living_room_tv
    - media_player.bedroom_tv
data:
  message: "Hello!"
```

### By Device ID

Target by device ID (from Developer Tools):

```yaml
service: embymedia.send_message
target:
  device_id: "abc123def456"
data:
  message: "Hello!"
```

### By Area

Target all Emby entities in an area:

```yaml
service: media_player.media_pause
target:
  area_id: living_room
```

### Multiple Targets

Combine multiple targeting methods:

```yaml
service: embymedia.send_message
target:
  entity_id: media_player.kitchen_tv
  area_id: bedroom
  device_id: "abc123"
data:
  message: "Movie night!"
```

---

## Finding Item IDs

To use services like `mark_played` or `add_favorite`, you need the Emby item ID.

### From Entity Attributes

When something is playing, check the entity attributes:

1. Go to **Developer Tools** → **States**
2. Find your media player entity
3. Look for `media_content_id` attribute

### From Emby URL

When viewing an item in Emby's web interface:
- URL format: `http://emby:8096/web/index.html#!/item?id=abc123`
- The item ID is the `id` parameter: `abc123`

### From Media Browser

The media browser content IDs are in the format required by services.

---

## Examples

### Complete Movie Night Automation

```yaml
automation:
  - alias: "Movie Night Setup"
    trigger:
      - platform: state
        entity_id: input_boolean.movie_night
        to: "on"
    action:
      # Dim the lights
      - service: light.turn_on
        target:
          entity_id: light.living_room
        data:
          brightness_pct: 5
      # Send notification to all TVs
      - service: embymedia.send_message
        target:
          entity_id:
            - media_player.living_room_tv
            - media_player.bedroom_tv
        data:
          message: "Movie night is starting!"
          header: "🎬 Movie Night"
          timeout_ms: 8000
      # Start playing from queue
      - service: media_player.media_play
        target:
          entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
```

### Mark Series as Watched

```yaml
script:
  mark_series_watched:
    alias: "Mark Series as Watched"
    sequence:
      - service: embymedia.mark_played
        target:
          entity_id: media_player.living_room_tv
        data:
          item_id: "{{ series_id }}"
```

---

## Limitations

### TTS Announcements (MEDIA_ANNOUNCE) Not Supported

The Emby integration **does not support** the `announce` parameter for TTS (text-to-speech) announcements. This is due to a fundamental limitation in the Emby API:

- **Emby can only play library items** - The Play command (`/Sessions/{Id}/Playing`) requires `ItemIds` referencing items in the Emby media library
- **No URL playback** - There is no API endpoint to play arbitrary URLs on Emby clients
- **TTS requires URLs** - Home Assistant's TTS system generates audio URLs (`media-source://tts/...`) that cannot be played through Emby

**Workaround:** Use the `embymedia.send_message` or `notify.send_message` services to display text on screen instead of playing audio announcements.

For more details, see the [Phase 14 documentation](../docs/phase-14-tasks.md#task-7-announcement-support-media_announce).

---

## Next Steps

- **[Automations](AUTOMATIONS.md)** - Ready-to-use automation examples
- **[Configuration](CONFIGURATION.md)** - Integration settings
- **[Troubleshooting](TROUBLESHOOTING.md)** - Fix common issues
